So speaking of that, Docker,
[LAUGH] this is not a Docker course.
I left a link here for
you to my Docker course,
if you want to take a Docker course,
which I suggest because I think containers
are really important for developers.
But that's not what this course is.
I'm gonna give you all
the Docker commands, but
I do need you to go
download Docker desktop.
Or whatever flavor of Docker, but if you
don't have a preferred flavor of Docker
you should use Docker desktop because
that is by far the easiest one to use.
So please go install Docker desktop,
I left a link here for you.
It should detect whatever desktop
you're on, and you can download it.
They'll kind of lead you through all
the various different steps that
you're gonna have to do to get it up and
running.
And then we're going to
interact a little bit.
To actually quite a bit
with the command line.
This is not a command line course, there
is a command line course that I also teach
that would be helpful but
again not required for this.
I will give you the command line
commands that you are going to need.
So in other words,
you can basically just copy and
paste all of my commands directly and
that should just work for you.
If you're not familiar with Docker
uses containers or containers,
basically you can think of like a mini
operating system that they kind of put
together for you to use.
We're gonna be using two containers and
actually kind of three containers at one
point, but these two are the primary ones.
The first one is just the vanilla
Postgres container, and
then the second is this kind of
one that I built on top of it.
So the second one actually
depends on the first one, so
Docker will handle that correctly,
you don't have to do anything about that.
We're gonna be using,
specifically PostgreSQL 14 for
this course, they actually do tend to
change a lot between Postgres versions.
So even if you're taking this way
later from when this class was filmed
in Postgres, 15 or 16 is out, I will
suggest that you still use PostgreSQL14.
That way everything that
all the commands and
stuff like that will work as is you don't
have to kind of do any translation.
And then later after the course then go
learn what changed between 14 and 15 or
14 and 16.
The second one here, you can click here.
It's just a container that I put up on
Docker hub called complete intro to SQL.
It has,
two different databases seated in it.
It has the Open Movie Database,
which is a huge database with
a bunch of movie stuff in it.
And then there's another one for
a website that you and I are gonna build,
called RecipeGuru.
Just know that I'm gonna have you
download some of these containers they
are quite large.
So if you're on like metered internet you
might wanna find some of the non-metered.
Each one of these containers
is about a half gigabyte, so
I'm gonna have you download about
a gigabyte's worth of stuff.
You can run these now, this is actually
going to go pull these containers.
It's not gonna run them yet, but it'll
it'll download them onto your computer.
And then once you've done that, I want
you to grab this command right here.
And we're gonna just paste that
into our command line here.
So I'm just going to paste docker run,
you can see I give it a post,
this e means environment variable.
So I mean give it a password of lol
because it's really easy to remember.
Obviously don't make your database
password lol in production.
Not at all what I'm advocating.
This is just something that's really
easy for us to reference later.
We're gonna call it pg as in postgres,
just because that's really easy for
us to reference later.
The-- rm means once this container is
concluded remove all of the logs and
stuff like that.
Don't leave that stuff floating around.
The- d is detached,
which means run it in the background
don't run in the foreground.
The -p means expose this port.
So we're gonna expose 5432
to our local computer.
Postgres is the name of the container and
the 14 is the version.
So I just explained it all to you so
you're aware, but
you actually don't need to care at all.
You can just copy and paste it and
say I don't care what Brian says.
That's fine,
you should get something like that.
That's the hash of
the container that's running,
now I should be able to say docker ps.
And you can see here I
have my container running.
It's been up for seven seconds.
Its name is Pg, and
it is running on port 5432.
So, going back I just wanna give you
enough Docker information to be dangerous.
So now we have docker ps that'll
show you everything that's running.
If you want to stop it from running,
you can just say docker kill pg,
and that will stop it.
So now if I say docker ps it's gone,
and again I can run it again.
That'll start it again
that's all goodness.
The one thing that I wanted to say about
running docker kill it will delete
everything that you've done, so if you've
been following along the course, and
you're like halfway through it.
And you'd run Docker kill, it's going
to drop everything that you had.
So just be aware of that.
So that's both a good thing if you're
trying to reset and start over, but
it's a bad thing if you didn't
mean to drop everything.
Docker is really good about just
running quietly in the background.
So if I just close my laptop and
come back, the Docker container
typically will still be running.
But if you restart your computer for
example it probably will
kill your containers.
You could fix that by running
volumes in the background, but
I'm not gonna show you how to do
that today so just be aware of that.
The thing that you can always do the
complete Recipeguru database that we're
gonna build up over time is lives inside
of this complete-intro-to-sql as well.
So you can just pull that one and
start from there as well, yeah.
>> What does it mean to run the Docker
container in the background
versus foreground?
>> That's good question.
I can just show you really quick.
So if we do the docker run and
I just take this -d out.
It's actually going to start
Docker in the foreground.
You can see all of the logs running
immediately right in front of me, right?
Now, I don't wanna do this, right,
I just wanna run in the background and
not think about the actual
execution of it.
But if this is useful to you and
you wanna see all the logs,
this is how you would do it.
What's hard about this, if I say Ctrl+C or
if I close this window,
it's going to stop the container, right?
So you can see there I actually shut
it down, it's not running it anymore.
But if I do this, and I come back,
and I say -d, it just runs it in
the background and I can kind of
just not think about it anymore.
The last thing I want you to do here is
just copy and paste this one: docker exec.
If you run this,
you should just immediately get a of
have been connected to postgres.
So you should see this
postgres prompt here.
If you do \l, it should tell you
all of the databases that exist.
In your database which we only have
the three, postgres, template0,
and template1,
which we'll talk about here in a second.
So what that command did this Docker
exec this is basically saying hey
run a bash command
inside of the container.
The- u means run it as the postgres user,
-it is interactive.
Pg is the name of the container and pscql
actually the name of the command that
we're running inside of the container,
which is the Postgres client, right?
Psql is the client to run
queries against the database.
So I can type exit here.
And the container is still running,
right because we're not
actually ending the container.
We're just exiting our
session with the database.
So anytime that you want to connect to it,
you just run this docker exec -u postgres
-it pg psql, and
that'll put you inside of the container.